So in the last few videos, we talked about the collection interface and one of the interfaces that
extends it to set this video, we're going to look at another interface, the list for those of you
who took my one zero eight one nine part one course, you know, that are discussed the list and array
list thoroughly in Section 10 as part of the preparation for the exam.
I'll review the list again more briefly here in the context of its relationship to the collection interface
and other interfaces in the collections framework.
So the features of a list are firstly that the list is ordered and allows positional indexed access,
the index is zero based.
A list typically allows duplicate elements of the list, typically allows null elements and usually
more than one null element.
List extends the collection interface, but specifies additional functionality, including the following
index based methods.
So first we've got to add there passing it and also element they are using that method without a specified
index is an append by using it with an index as we're using it here, inserts the limit at the specified
index, shifting existing list at or after the specified index to the next one was accurate at all.
And similar to the ad, if you use error without a specified index, it depends all elements to the
end of the list.
But using it as we would here, passing it, index it and a collection, then the Arrow method will
insert all the elements in the argument shifting existing list elements at or after the specified index
to the next index.
We've got to get with index as an argument and that retrieves the element at the specified index.
You're going to sit in index and an element that replaces the element of the index with the element
in the argument, you've got an index of putting an object that returns the index of the first position
of the matching element past as the argument.
We've got a last index of passing an object that returns the index of the last position of the matching
element passed as the argument.
What list iterator passing an INT index that returns a list iterator over the elements in this list
in proper sequence, starting at the specified position in the list of sublist passing in from index
and another meant to index that returns a view, not a new list of the portion of this list between
the specified from index inclusive in two index exclusive.
Moving on list also contains these methods.
We've got a thought passing a cooperator, this resource at list according to the order induced by the
specified comparator.
We've got a two or right method which returns an array object array containing all elements in the list
in a proper sequence from first to last element, and to array a tray that returns an array containing
all elements in the list in proper sequence from first to last element and the runtime top of the return
arrays that of the specified array.
And also listen to static factory methods.
We've got a copy of putting a collection, this takes the collection and returns.
And on modifiable list we've got an overloaded list of metadata to accept, comma delimited lists of
elements in a document and returns and modify the list.
The two factory methods in the table above have the following features in common.
Firstly, they return on modifiable list.
Elements cannot be added, removed or replaced and trying to do so because an unsupported operation
exception to be thrown.
However, if it contained elements of themselves mutable, this may cause the lists content to appear
to change.
The second feature in common is passing the elements as part of the argument or arguments in Lyster
of will result in an nail pointer exception as well, passing a collection containing all elements to
the list, a copy of Method.
And thirdly, the order of elements in the return list is the same as the order of the provided arguments
or of the elements in the provided collection.
A realist and legalist are two of the most common classes which implement the lowest interface, a linked
list is a doubly linked list, implementation of list and cue operations.
That index into a linked list will traverse the list from the beginning of the end, whichever is closer
to the specified index.
All right.
With that out of the way in, the next video will swing over and start looking at some of this in code.
See you in the next video.